So now that we have these kind of
data bound on our SVG elements,
what we want to do next is to be able to
use them to manipulate our DOM elements.
And to do that our d3 has .attr and
.style.
And [COUGH] all right,
these will set either
the attributes or
CSS styles on our SVG elements.
And so
here we have our five rectangles, and
what we've done is we went and
set the width to sorry,
we just have a variable that says we want
the rectangle width to be 50 pixels.
And then we just set the width to
the number of bars times that width,
set the height of 100,
still have our five rectangle elements.
And here's what we've done,
you say go and get our SVG, and
within that SVG container,
select all of our rectangles.
So here, and
let's bind our array of five numbers,
bind that data on to all
of these rectangles.
And then we're going to use our bound
data, to calculate the exposition.
And I want the exposition to be
the index of that rectangle,
multiplied by the width,
the rectangle width.
We want the height to just
be the data that's bound,
the width to be the previously
defined rectangle width of 50 pixels.
Put in some shape width of 3,
put in some fill color of pink,
and this is how we have this.
And and actually let's talk
about how this is working
underneath the hood first, and
so with the addr and .style,
what it does is it takes a selection,
and it loops through all
of the elements in the selection all
of the DOM elements in the selection.
And it sets either the attribute or
CSS style on all of those elements.
And so if value is a function, so
if what we're passing in
is a function like this.
So if this value is a function,
then what d3 does,
is loops through and
passes in the data that's bound, and
the index of that particular, DOM element.
So what we've done here is for
the x and the height,
we've said, loop through each
of these rectangle elements.
And for the first rectangle,
the data that's been bound is 45 and
the index is 0, so the X will
evaluate to 0, and the height is 45.
For the second one, data bound is 67,
index is 1, x thus is 1 times 50 is 50,
height is the data so it's 67 and
so on with all of the rectangles.
So that's kind of what d3 is doing for
us underneath the hood,
when we call attr or .style.
So I wanted to take kind of
just like a few minutes and
maybe like five minutes to
kind of just play around
with each of these cells that we covered.
I knew that I went through quite quickly
in terms of, console logging all of this.
So I just want you to either,
here instead of maybe
using the bar d maybe here
maybe we can find some
other data if you want to
pass along some different data,
give it a try,
like console, log different things.
And then for the attributes,
try playing around with these numbers or
try passing along maybe
functions if you want to.
And, if you want to try different
presentation attributes,
here's a list of the different attributes
that you can set on SVG elements.
So I just want us to take a few moments,
to kind of play around with these cells so
that you can kind of get a, hopefully more
intuitive understanding of d3 selections,
and how data binding is working.
And how we can use those bound data with
the attributes on these DOM elements.